Adds defining target architecture post (#1082)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2023-11/defining-target-architecture/index.md

---
title: Defining a target architecture
description: How to approach defining a target architecture for your software systems.
author: andrew.best@octopus.com
visibility: private
published: 2023-11-06-1400
metaImage:
bannerImage:
bannerImageAlt: 125 characters max, describes image to people unable to see it.
isFeatured: false
tags:
  - Engineering
---

When writing a technical strategy, it's useful to have a clear picture of the technical problems you're facing in your organization.

> Ideally, you should be able to diagnose a problem clearly, knowing how the problems are going to impact your organization's business strategy, and at what magnitude.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, you should be able to make a clear problem diagnosis, knowing which technical problems are going to impact your organization's business strategy, and at what magnitude.
```

A common state that many engineering organizations end up in is where each team has its own perspective on what _the biggest problems_ are. Often they're the problems that have an outsized impact on that particular team.

> Occasionally, you'll find shared problems that all teams can agree on. This is more likely if teams use shared infrastructure or work in a mono-repo or monolithic application. Even if the teams agree on the problem, they may have different perspectives on its impact. In particular, how much it impacts the business's strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Occasionally, you'll find shared problems that all teams can agree on. This is more likely if teams use shared infrastructure or work in a monorepo or monolithic application. Even if the teams agree on the problem, they may have different perspectives on its impact. In particular, how much it impacts the business's strategy.
```

- We prefer solving for our known current and future state over building for the unknown
- We prefer working within our constraints over setting unachievable goals
- We're optimizing for high-quality product velocity in our core product
- We're optimizing for a scalable, performant product
- We're not optimizing for building new products independently of our core product

These principles ensured that the problems identified were real and material. They also ensured solutions were realistic, achievable, and optimized for business goals.

These principles helped contributors by providing a frame for their exploration. They also helped future consumers of the target architecture by providing them with the knowledge of that frame, so that they could empathize with how we formed the opinions we authored.

### Focus on what matters

As we dove into individual capabilities, we quickly found that:

- Spending time writing about things that we marked as high maturity felt low value
- Fully exploring areas that we'd marked as low maturity took _a lot of time_

> The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed tosolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed to solve.
```

> The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed tosolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed to solve.
```

> The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed tosolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed to solve.
```

:::hint
It's worth highlighting the impact of this choice. Instead of the target architecture painting a full picture of the architecture underpinning our product, it focused on the problems that needed to be solved. This was a good tradeoff. By focusing on the problems that needed solving, we could generate a stronger signal and reduce the noise from communicating the detail of capabilities that were already fit for purpose.
:::

### Impact and effort

After we completed our target state exploration, we had a set of well-defined problems and solution preferences underneath each capability.

> It became clear that the documented target state was hard to reason about:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point it became clear that the documented target state was hard to reason about:
```

  - Engineering
---

When writing a technical strategy, it's useful to have a clear picture of the technical problems you're facing in your organization.

> Ideally, you should be able to diagnose a problem clearly, knowing how the problems are going to impact your organization's business strategy, and at what magnitude.

Author: This edit has diluted this paragraph a bit. I'd like it to still talk about "A clear diagnosis" rather than "diagnosing a problem clearly", as the diagnosis is a key part of good strategy. 

I'd suggest this as an alternative edit:

> Ideally, you should be able to make a clear problem diagnosis, knowing which technical problems are going to impact your organizations business strategy, and at what magnitude.

A common state that many engineering organizations end up in is where each team has its own perspective on what _the biggest problems_ are. Often they're the problems that have an outsized impact on that particular team.

> Occasionally, you'll find shared problems that all teams can agree on. This is more likely if teams use shared infrastructure or work in a mono-repo or monolithic application. Even if the teams agree on the problem, they may have different perspectives on its impact. In particular, how much it impacts the business's strategy.

Author: Can we unhyphenate `monorepo` here please? It isn't hyphenated in most technical literature.

Author: Also if it has been hyphenated in other edits :)

Reviewer: Sure thing

- Spending time writing about things that we marked as high maturity felt low value
- Fully exploring areas that we'd marked as low maturity took _a lot of time_

> The combination of these two insights led to us removing everything marked as _high maturity_ from the document. This let us focus our time and effort on the problems we needed tosolved.

Author: Typo here - `tosolved` should be `to solve`.

Reviewer: Good catch :)

:::hint
It's worth highlighting the impact of this choice. Instead of the target architecture painting a full picture of the architecture underpinning our product, it focused on the problems that needed to be solved. This was a good tradeoff. By focusing on the problems that needed solving, we could generate a stronger signal and reduce the noise from communicating the detail of capabilities that were already fit for purpose.
:::

### Impact and effort

After we completed our target state exploration, we had a set of well-defined problems and solution preferences underneath each capability.

> It became clear that the documented target state was hard to reason about:

Author: This reads a little awkwardly - could we rephrase it to 

> At this point it became clear that the documented target state was hard to reason about

The biggest impact from creating and distributing our target architecture is that it has effectively democratized it.

Teams often cite the target architecture when making key implementation decisions in Octopus Server. Teams are aware of our stated goals and orient their changes in support of those goals.

I often open the target architecture document and see a collection of user avatars at the top. Engineers and managers use the document as reference material while doing their daily work.

Teams dig deep into the stated intentions in the document. They debate their merits and ideate alternatives. This is valuable, as it either galvanizes the stated opinions or uncovers higher-value alternatives that we can adopt.

The most important aspect of all this is that _the authors do not need to be present for this to happen_.

This is the secret to unlocking scale in engineering. As much as possible, remove any key-role dependencies. Let teams and individuals reason autonomously, using clearly communicated frames and goals.

### Technical education

Beyond empowering technical people with the knowledge of target architectural state, non-technical stakeholders realize similar impacts.

> Product, sales, support, marketing - people across the organization can understand what technical challenges to solve to achieve business goals.

Author: This sentence is not quite right now - non technical people do not need to solve the technical challenges, they need to know which challenges need to be solved. Can we reword to:

> Product, sales, support, marketing - people across the organization can understand what technical challenges need to be solved to achieve business goals.

Reviewer: Sure thing. I was trying to avoid passive language but makes more sense this way so will change as per your suggestion :)

If you work in an organization that produces a software product, or your business operations are largely powered by software, this understanding is critical. Often technical problems are some of the primary impediments to success. They're hard constraints that limit what the business can achieve.

> By aligning the organization with the technical problems you need to solve and their impact on goals, everyone can make good decisions when allocating budget and investing in solving those problems.

Author: This paragraph isn't quite right. I'm not sure on empahsizing "you" here - they are problems the org needs to solve. And not everyone makes budgeting and investment decisions. 

I'd suggest:

By aligning the organization on technical problems and their impacts, decision makers can make informed decisions when allocating budget and investing in solving those problems.

Reviewer: Sure thing, I'll update :)
